A visual aid often makes
a clearer
or more lasting impression
on the mind than does the spoken word.
Under the direction
of the Writing Committee,
the Art Department
has enjoyed
the privilege of designing
and illustrating Bible literature
for almost 40 years.
The department was established
sometime before 1976.
But a small team of artists
had been working
on illustrations and typography
from as far back
as the “Photo-Drama of Creation.”
The work of publishing Bible literature
has seen many changes.
Now there are EPUBs, interactive PDFs,
Web design, and HTML content,
all of which require new skills
as well as close collaboration
with many other Bethel departments.
The Art Department
is structured into teams.
Each team is made up
of designers, photographers,
illustrators, prop and set makers,
costume and makeup artists,
as well as production workers.
The team lead and the scheduler
work directly
with the Writing Department contact
known as a compiler.
After receiving
an early version of the text,
the three brothers discuss
the purpose
and possible look of the design.
All on the team
are invited to collaborate
as concepts are developed.
Each member contributes
to the overall design of a project.
Before any production work is started,
concepts are sketched and developed.
These sketches become a blueprint
that helps the team
understand the concept,
plan the resources,
and ensure
that the project stays on track.
Who is the target audience?
How will this publication be used?
The design should be clear and simple.
And it needs to work in all languages.
This is no small task.
When the design is ready,
the compiler presents a mock-up
of the publication
to the Writing Committee.
The committee reviews the design
and makes any needed adjustments.
After the concept is approved,
production begins.
Around the world,
there are many photographers
who work part-time to assist
in providing images.
Photographs are also taken in our studio
and other locations.
These images help give our publications
an international look.
Accuracy is vital.
A researcher provides
historical references and inspiration.
Hair, makeup, and costumes
are designed to depict
the time period and region.
Props, set design, and lighting
provide the right look and setting.
When combined,
each element helps tell the story
and capture the imagination of the viewer.
Sets are also built in 3D programs.
They can be used as art source
or as final illustrations.
Whether painted digitally
or with traditional materials,
the artist renders the illustration
in a style suited for its final use.
When design meets illustration,
infographics are born.
After final approval
by the Writing Committee,
files are sent to the printeries
and to the website
or used to create other digital versions.
In order to reach the hearts of those
who read a Bible-based publication,
hands and hearts
have to be involved in its creation.
Those of us in the Art Department
consider it a privilege to give support
to the most urgent of all work
—preaching the good news.